A summary of The Nova Terra Chronicles
The Nova Terra Chronicles is a television series of seven seasons (each titled a book), totalling 182 episodes aired from September 2016 to December 2024 (with hiatuses in 2020 and July-November 2023 for the COVID-19 pandemic and the SAG-AFTRA strike respectively), centred on the alternate planet of Nova Terra, as viewed through the lens of people great and small in a world in cold war, shaped by vast systems for the most part beyond their control. Total certainty is a dangerous thing in this world. You will laugh, you may cry, and you may stare in abject horror, but the world turns all the same.

Book One:
The Nova Terra Chronicles begins with the story of Pete Kaplan, a slightly bumbling, but thoughtful and empathetic reporter from the United Tank Provinces, being sent to the UTP’s closest ally, the Commonwealth of Britannia-Ireland to report on developments there for the Tank City Times. What follows is an examination of Commonwealth society through the lens of a foreigner, and the eventual eruption of the Anglo-Twittertopian Conflict into open war, where neither side is completely innocent.
Book Two:
Book Two follows with an examination of President Henri Duranceau, the newly-elected conservative-liberal president of the UTP of the Democratic Alliance (which has just defeated the longtime-dominant Nationalists in the 1952 elections), as he attempts to pragmatically reform the UTP and navigate the Cold War in a way advantageous to the UTP and the FNA as a whole, and concurrently navigate the domestic political climate. Although due to a recession late in his second term ruins his popularity, a brief epilogue reveals a reappraisal of him as actually a pretty decent President, but constrained by external factors.
Book Three:
Book Three is set in Canausbel, following a Canausbelite shopkeeper as he navigates the nuances of life in a socialist-but-not-revolutionary nation under the backdrop of the impending handover of the Velimovsk Canal to Canausbel in 1955, and the rising tide of nationalist sentiment that results. Also explores the complications of socialism by its collision with reality, and peoples’ attempts to build a better world anyway.
Book Four:
Book Four follows Franz, a simple Rapusian soldier during the 1956 Uprising, as he slowly questions his own loyalty to the Rapusian system as he falls in love with a rebel. However, what follows, as the protestors get more violent and less idealistic, is Franz beginning to question whether caring about politics, as just one person with no support, actually means anything at all, and whether it can actually lead to change. He survives, and ends up living a relatively comfortable life, married, with children; just disillusioned with politics specifically.
Book Five:
Book Five has a significantly more complex plot, following a Dai-Kokuese salarywoman (Takaki Hideko) working for Mitsuo and attempting to conform to Dai-Kokuese society, a moderate Ishanian general (Yi Shen) witnessing the rise of industrial unrest (becoming a hardliner in the process) and dealing with a disorganized army and a Diplomatian consul (Leofwine Lee) in Heunggong (a Commonwealth colony bordered by Ishanis where silent battles between Commonwealth & Diplomatian intelligence vs. Dai-Kokuese corporate intelligence occur over blueprints for semiconductors and chips) trying to cover up Diplomatian involvement, as the twists and turns of the Cold War reach the Great Ocean Rim and mix with the social tensions already there, and the stories of three wildly unrelated characters slowly begin to intertwine in ways nobody can predict.
Book Six:
Book Six follows Marcus Tovander, the cunning Foreign Minister of Auxur, as he begins to mediate a diplomatic agreement in secret between Twittertopia and Reddit Island as part of Auxur’s responsibility as a Great Power. However, things get out of hand when the Community of Nations catches wind of these negotiations, beginning an introspection on the value of the Community of Nations. Simultaneously, while Tovander is brilliant at politically maneuvering around the Community of Nations, military unrest with the oligarchic system of Auxur is brewing. He might be a great diplomat, but dealing with a possible military coup in his own country is not something a foreign minister does without consequences.
Book Seven:
Book Seven follows Marion Velasquez, a Pangarapi bureaucrat that finds himself embroiled in an internal conspiracy led by the technocrat (and covert reformist) Ramon Giulias to overthrow the regime, as he finds himself targeted in an internal power struggle far beyond his pay grade, merely for his connection to Giulias; the kingmaker of Pangarapese internal politics. And, as it escalates, and the split between Giulias the reformist and the faction of true technocrats he leads becomes increasingly apparent, rumours of a world-ending plot (led by Martino Garcia and his faction of accelerationists) to manipulate the three superpowers into an all-out war begin to swirl…
